Intro. Global issue: “social inequality between Greater Middle Eastern refugees and citizens of developed states”
“Social inequality between Greater Middle Eastern refugees and citizens of developed states” is a global issue that Arnold Zable examines in a number of his works. The ‘SIEV X’ incident is the subject of two of his short stories, “The Ancient Mariner” (in which my passage lies) and *Zahra’s Lullaby*. 

In his greater body of work, Arnold Zable has written two short stories with a specific focus on the global issue. The first, in which my passage lies, is “The Ancient Mariner” from the collection *Violin Lessons* and the second is “Zahra’s Lullaby” from *A Country Too Far*. The audiences for both stories are globally-minded middle to upper-class voting Australians who possess the ability to influence change. And both “The Ancient Mariner” and “Zahra’s Lullaby” are stories set in modern-day Australia where Zable talks to a SIEV X survivor and former citizen of the Greater Middle East about their experiences. In “Zahra’s Lullaby”, Zable heavily emphasises husband and wife and survivors of SIEV X, Faris and Majida’s apartment and its normalities. Significant to this is the inclusion of details such as “Whenever I visit there is food on the coffee table” or that the “flat is clean and neat”. In contrast, Zable explains the conditions of the boat that took them across the Indian Ocean, “the ageing fishing vessel bore no resemblance to [a spacious, well-equipped boat]”. In a similar vein, “The Ancient Mariner” also explores this contrast for Amal Basry, where in her apartment, Zable remarks on a “CD of Umm Khultum”, “her cooking” and “cardamon tea”. In her refugee state, however, Amal remarks: “There was no food and no medicine”, and “our food is ‘air food’, like nothing”. This contrast is emblematic of the global issue. Themes of *limbo* or *statelessness*, especially concerning refugees, are heavily explored in both “Zahra’s Lullaby” and “The Ancient Mariner”. In the “Ancient Mariner”, Zable likens “limbo” to a “state worse than death” while simultaneously implying that refugees exist in this state. “Statelessness” is diction that is repeated throughout “Zahra’s Lullaby” that, being used by the United Nations, is a term with official and legal connotations. In emphasising “limbo” and “statelessness”, Zable draws a juxtaposition between the audience and the present status of Amal, Faris and Majida, which is stateful. This juxtaposition enhances the global issue.

My passage presents the global issue thoroughly. Throughout “The Ancient Mariner”, Zable includes large quotes from Amal, occasionally interjecting to emphasise or otherwise provide context. This structure allows Zable to preserve the mood of his interactions with Amal in their transposition from speech to written story. In this passage, this preservation enhances the global issue by invigorating Amal’s story. And in addition, the empathetic mood in this passage allows the audience to contrast their own experience with Amal’s, furthering the global issue in a poignant way. To achieve this, Zable uses auditory imagery and musical diction through lines 1 to 13. Zable compares Amal to Umm Khultum, an Arab singer who composes extended songs that tell stories. Zable describes Amal’s recounting as an “incantation”, an interesting use of diction that positions Amal’s telling as spiritual or religious (by the connotation) but also infectious (by the denotation). Zable’s uses “*tarab*” on line 11, a word used specifically for Arabic music to mean, according to the Michigan Daily, “enchantment”. Ultimately, the effect of this musical diction and comparison to Umm Khultum, is for Zable to share his deep investment in Amal’s story with the audience, allowing them to empathise with it. The representation of the global issue continues as the passage shifts to Amal’s words. In her opening line, line 15, Amal addresses Zable and the reader as ‘My brother’. In doing so, Amal establishes the reader as a brother, which in Islam is less a familial relation than an indication of trust and respect. The effect of this is to further that empathetic mood. In a use of anaphora on lines 19 to 21, Amal repeats ‘they said’ at the beginning of clauses. The effect of this is to emphasise her final sentence, “They said that Australia is a democratic country”. This sentence strongly emphasises the global issue, in that reasons for seeking asylum often stem from corruption or authoritarian rule. In the following paragraph, Amal speaks about her ‘dreams’ of Australia. The content of this paragraph clearly displays the global issue, in that she dreams to be Australian because Australian’s enjoy greater welfare than she does as an asylum seeker. My passage presents the global issue through its content, especially within Amal’s quotes which are enhanced by Zable’s interjection.

Uǧur Gallenkuş’ *Parallel Universes of Children*, his book of juxtaposing photomontages from which my photo comes from, explores the global issue. Gallenkuş' is a Turkish photomontage creator focusing mainly upon the theme of global inequality. In his introduction, Gallenkuş underscores refugees Many of his works feature photos from countries that surround his own, Turkey, in the Greater Middle East. In an interview, Gallenkuş revealed his purpose to be to create change by making “people empathise with problems in the world”. Gallenkuş’ audience may be people, especially in Turkey and the Greater Middle East with the power to make change. The title, *Parallel Universes of Children* is a metaphor that describes the inequalities and two-way perceived inaccessibilities between Global North and Global South, in which Greater Middle Eastern states are over-represented. The foregrounding of children, a vulnerable and protected group in the eyes of society, in the title and more broadly has the effect of enhancing the global issue by providing an element of shock to the audience. 'I See You' is a Gallenkuş photomontage featuring two images, a stock photo of a girl juxtaposed with a young crying young Burmese girl in a refugee camp. The global issue is clearly evident in the content of this image. It is assisted by the eye-level framing and staring of the children at the audience. 'Wounded Girl with a Pearl Earring...' is another artwork featured in the book. The montage is of two images, a wounded Syrian girl receiving treatment at a temporary hospital amidst conflict juxtaposed with a photo of the famous 'Girl with a Pearl Earring' painting. The photos are spliced together on a hard line and each photo takes an even amount of the frame. This gives each photo equal importance. The faces of the girls also line up, further equalising the two images. Having equality between the images subverts the audience's societal expectation that the painting is of higher importance, and thus highlights inequality. The inequality displayed between the girl, whom is experiencing conditions that drive people to refugee status and the girl with a pearl earring through this subversion of expectations highlights the global issue clearly. Gallenkuş successfully conveys the global issue through his foregrounding of children and juxtaposing imagery. 

(topic sentence). In 'Salvation...', as with all his images, Gallenkuş provides contextual detail for the photojournalistic image. In this case, a "child with Dengue fever is holding the doctor's hand in Jalozai, Pakistan", a notorious Afghan refugee camp. This image is juxtaposed with 'The Creation of Adam', a famous artwork on the Sistine Chapel. Christian God, being the traditional religion of many Western states, is likely representative of Western states in the more global context of this image. This artwork produced by Gallenkuş strongly highlights the global issue, social inequality between refugees and citizens of developed states. The greatest evidence for this in the image is the depiction of Christian God, and therefore developed, Western states as in a higher position. The salient image in this artwork is God. Despite being far from the centre of the image, God's image is very bright in contrast to the rest of the image. In addition, God's image is relatively high in detail. The effect of this is to highlight an inequality between God and the refugee. In addition to this, the image of the refugee child has a vignette that connotes a dingy environment and impoverishment. This furthers the inequality represented in the image. There also exists a great distance between God and the refugee child, possibly representative of the great difference between the lives of citizens in developed states and refugees, similar to Gallenkuş parallel universes metaphor. Of course, the hands of the refugee and God are touching. The hands of god and of the child contrast dramatically in size and in race. This may be a metaphor for foreign aid, where citizens of dramatically higher welfare status go to aid those in developing states. Foreign aid is a emblematic of deep inequality and therefore the global issue, since one state can afford to provide excess resources to another. The positioning of aid-giving Western states as god by Gallenkuş may be satiric rather than solemn. 

